summary. 
Ethyl carbamate (EC) is a naturally occurring component in the fermented products, especially the Chinese yellow rice wine. EC has been found showing a potential for carcinogenity and causing food safety problems. This study is to investigate the application of the existing HPLC-FLD method to the analysis of EC in Chinese yellow rice wine, and to validate it for EC analysis with high through-out and applicability in Chinese yellow rice wine sample. The parameters examined in this study were fully evaluated. Results indicated that good linearity was obtained with a correlation coefficient exceeding 0.9990, the limit of detection and quantification was 73.2 and 243.9 lg L)1, respectively. Recoveries ranged between 98.30% and 101.30%, and the precision of this method was lower than 5% (RSD). The method conducted in this work was successfully applied to determine EC concentration in Chinese yellow rice wine samples from different origins. The negative correlation between EC formation and urea level in yellow rice wine samples is evaluated with the developed HPLC-FLD method.
Keywords. 
Chinese yellow rice wine, determination, ethyl carbamate, high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection.
introduction. 
Ethyl carbamate (EC, urethane) that widely exists in fermented food, occurs naturally in the process of fermentation and storage. EC can be detected in bread, yoghurt, cheese, soy sauce, vinegar and alcoholic bev- erages (Dennis et al., 1989; Funch et al., 1988; Hasnip et al., 2007; Kim et al., 2000). It has been reported that EC shows a potential for carcinogenity as administered in high doses in vivo (Stevens & Ough, 1993). It should be noted that the presence of EC in fermented foods is greatly significant (Beland et al., 2005). Thus, the wine industry is interested in developing suitable methods to reduce EC level in the final products.
The previous investigation indicates that the forma- tion of EC in alcoholic beverage is mainly related to its precursor, urea, which was carried out by yeasts from arginine, reacts with ethanol under specific conditions during winemaking and storage (Stevens & Ough, 1993). Granchi et al (1998) found that under the condition of pH 4–5 and temperature 25–33 °C, yeast metabolises arginine at high amounts. In the process of Chinese yellow rice winemaking, the main parameters duringfermentation period exactly fell in the interval. It was reported that 90% of EC in Chinese yellow rice wine was formed by the reaction between urea and ethanol (Gu, 1996). Some other factors, such as temperature or storage time also influence the formation of EC in grape wine (Stevens & Ough, 1993; Woo et al., 2001). Thus, the presence of EC-producing enzymes in yeast strain was modified using molecular biology. However, there are no available studies on the formation of EC in Chinese yellow rice wine.
In terms of the presence of EC in wine products, thus, the distribution and detection of EC should be consid- ered important in quality control of yellow rice wine processing. Detection of EC in beverages is not easy due to its low concentration and matrix interference (Her- bert et al., 2002). The GC ⁄ MS was usually adopted as reference method by both European Commission and the International Office of Vine and Wine (OIV). However, the conventional GC ⁄ MS method needs a time-consuming sample preparation step before quanti- fication. Moreover, the implementation of the official method in quality control laboratories has been difficult, mainly due to technical demands (Lachenmeier et al., 2005). The time-consuming extraction procedures, the loss of reproducibility as additional clean-up of extracts is performed, and the consequently increased global uncertainty, represent the major disadvantages of the conventional technique (Lachenmeier et al., 2006). Thus, it is of particular importance to develop the suitable methodology for EC determination in Chinese yellow rice wine. 
As an alternative to GC ⁄ MS method for EC detection in alcoholic beverages, a method based on high-perfor- mance liquid chromatography (HPLC) prior derivatisa- tion with 9-xanthydrol is established by Herbert et al. (2002). The newly developed method requires a short sample-preparation time and shows high sensitivity, which was applied for determining EC levels of cider spirits, Korean soy sauce, red wine and white wine (Roberto & Bele ́ n, 2009; Sung et al., 2007; Susana et al., 2005). But in terms of Chinese yellow rice wine sample, there is limited studies with regard to EC analysis.
Using crops to make wine is a special characteristic in Chinese alcohol-making history. The yellow rice wine, being one of the three main kinds of alcohol beverage (rice wine, grape wine and beer), is known as the model of oriental winemaking. This special wine usually contains over 15% (v ⁄ v) alcohol, 0.3–0.5 g ⁄ 100 mL organic acids and 0.2–0.5 g ⁄ 100 mL sugar content. It should be noted that yellow rice wine has twenty-one kinds of amino acids and other flavouring components, especially eight kinds of essential amino acid. Neverthe- less, the presence of EC in it is a potential risk to consumers’ health. Consequently, the occurrence and regulation of EC in Chinese yellow rice wine are the main assignment deserved to be further studied. To avoid the unnecessary extraction steps, a selective reaction prior to HPLC separation was examined in the present study. Additionally, fluorescence detector (FLD) was employed in order to obtain low detection level. Thus, a simple methodology for EC determination in Chinese yellow rice wine based on the reaction with 9-xantydrol to form a fluorescent derivative was fully evaluated in the present work.
Materials and methods. 
Reagents and standard. 
The solvents used for HPLC analysis were of HPLC grade. Deionised water was purified using Milli-Q system (Millipore, Bedford, MA, USA). Other solvents used in this study were analytical grade (Shanghai, China). EC and 9-xanthydrol were obtained from Sigma-Aldrich Chemical Corporation (St Louis, MO, USA) with a minimum purity of 99%. 
Preparation of standard solution. 
The stock solution of standard EC was prepared at the concentration of 18 lg mL)1 by dissolving appropriate weights in 30% methanol (v ⁄ v), and stored in a refrigerator. Each working standard solution was prepared by gradual dilution of standard stock solutions with 30% methanol (4.5 lg mL)1, 1.8 lg mL)1, 0.9 lg mL)1, 0.18 lg mL)1).
Sample preparation and derivatisation. 
All the samples used for EC analysis were collected from Zhejiang market, China (four types, namely Jiashan Youhua, Tapai, Ningbo Ala and Fuchunjiang, each type with five levels in verified experiment). Owing to the low concentration of EC in the original samples, the concentration process of crude samples is necessary. Thus, the samples were evaporated to appropriate volume (ten times concentration) using vacuum evapo- ration device (Rotavapor R-210, BU ̈ CHI Labortechnik AG, Flawil) at the temperature of 35 °C. After the concentration, the derivatisation reaction was carried out in the following step, 0.02 M 9-xanthydrol (200 lL) was added into the concentrated sample (1 mL) or standard EC then followed by 100 lL of 1.5 M HCl. To make the reaction fully completed, the mixture was shaken for a few seconds and waited for 30 min before injecting into chromatographic system for analysis.
Chromatographic conditions. 
The HPLC-FLD in this work consisted of two Waters 510 pumps (Waters, Milford, MA, USA), 108 sample injector (Rheodyne, Cotati, CA, USA) and a Waters 2475 fluorescence detector. A Reversed-phase Symmetry C18 (250 mm · 4.6 mm, 4 lm, Waters) was used. The chro- matographic temperature was 35 °C and injection volume was 20 lL. The excitation and emission wave- length was 233 and 600 nm, respectively. The mobile phase was methanol–water and the gradient elution conditions were listed in Table 1. Quantification was performed according to an external standard method.
HPLC-FLD method validation. 
The limits of detection (LOD) and limits of quantifica- tion (LOQ) were determined on the basis of the signal- to-noise ratios of 3:1 and 10:1, respectively. The same calibration curve was used to determine LOD and LOQ. The intra-day precisions were determined by calculating the standard deviations of the analysis concentration between 6 consecutive HPLC runs of a solution, and the inter-day precisions were measured by sample analyses from three consecutive days. The variations were eval- uated using the RSD of triplicate injections. Quantifi- cation of analysis in samples was based on an external standard method. 
The efficiency of the HPLC-FLD procedure was evaluated determining the recovery rate from standard sample and Chinese yellow rice wine sample prepara- tions at three different concentrations. First, recovery was determined by comparing the analytical results for extracted standards. In the last case, a known amount of standard solution obtained by diluting the stock solu- tion was added to Chinese yellow rice wine and extracted as described above. Three injections were made for each sample. The spiked and non-spiked Chinese yellow rice wines were analysed based on the proposed method, and their concentrations were calcu- lated by the external standard method. The recovery was estimated as the following equation:
Recoveryð%Þ 1⁄4 ðCcyrw   CncyrwÞ=Ca   100
Urea analysis.
Two reagents were prepared in advance as follows: reagent I contains 50 mL phosphate (85%, v ⁄ v), 120 mL sulphate (98%, v ⁄ v), 0.05 g FeCl3 and 330 mL water; reagent II is a solution of 0.5 mg mL)1 of diacetylmonoxime and 0.1 mg mL)1 of thiosemicarbaz- ide in water. Reagent I and Reagent II were mixed at the volume ratio of 2:1 before measurement. 5 mL mixture was added to 1 mL sample in a test tube. The tube was heated in boiling water for 15 min. Subsequently, the tube was cooling immediately to the room temperature by cold water. Urea was reacted with hot acidic diacetylmonoxime in the presence of thiosemicarbazide, which produced a red colour complex. The coloured complex was detected at k = 526 nm using UV spectrophotometer. The linear equation between urea concentration and OD526 was as follows: OD526 = 0.022c–0.024 (R2 = 0.9990, the linear range between 3.98 and 39.84 mg L)1).
Statistical method. 
Analysis of variance (anova) was conducted to detect significant differences in the EC level of the twenty Chinese yellow rice wine samples depending on the
production characteristics and origins employed. Linear regression was carried out in the calibration procedure and the recovery experiment was examined.
Results and discussion. 
A good separation of xanthyl-EC is obtained under the conditions finally established (Table 1). Figure 1 showed a chromatogram of the standard, a Chinese yellow rice wine and the blank sample. As can be seen from Fig. 1, there are lots of peaks, even in the case of the standard. This is due to the presence of 9-xanthydrol derivatives in the reagent, as observed by Valde ́ s Biles & Ziobro (1988), which makes the separation of xanthyl- EC difficult on account of its low concentration as well as the excess of reagent, which has a similar polarity to xanthyl-EC. All the chromatographic operations were performed at 35 °C. Under the developed conditions, xanthyl-EC is detected at peak time 35 ± 2 min. Meanwhile, the minimum reaction time (10–40 min) and the stability of xanthyl-EC compound during 1–12 h were fully estimated (data not shown). A reaction time of 30 min was determined to guarantee the nucleophilic substitution of the hydroxyl group in 9-xanthydrol. Moreover, xanthyl-EC formed was highly stable during the experimental period, with a difference between the maximum signal (30 min) and the last analysis performed (12 h) of 5%. Current data imply that rapid injection of the sample after derivatisation is unnecessary. It allows the sample preparation and injection stages to be separated, thus facilitating the application of this method in routine analysis.
The linearity of HPLC-FLD method was determined by means of the calibration curve ranging from six levels and three points for each level. The statistics results were shown in Table 2. Calibration was carried out in the range 180.0–4500.0 lg L)1, being found to be linear in the entire study range (R2 > 0.9990). The limit of detection (LOD) and limit of quantification (LOQ) were estimated from statistics based on the calibration curve (Miller, 1991). As clearly indicated in Table 2, the LOD (S⁄N = 3)ofECwas73.2 lg L)1,theLOQ(S⁄N=10) of EC was 243.9 lg L)1.
Precision was evaluated using three samples in two ways: retention times and peak areas (Roberto & Bele ́ n, 2009). For each sample, the repeatability of peak areas and retention times were calculated by the relative standard deviation (RSD) of six independent assays on the same day. Data indicated that RSD for the retention time of EC peak was <3% and RSD for the peak areas was <5% (2.45%). The reproducibility of the established method, evaluated as the RSD between two analysts with two independent assays, was <5% (3.65%).
To examine the accuracy of this method and to detect any matrix effect, a recovery study was performed. The accuracy, in terms of recovery, was verified by spiking the Chinese yellow rice wine sample with EC standard at three specific concentrations, followed by determined by the HPLC-FLD method. The accuracy values showed good recovery (Table 2). Under the established condi- tions, the results of the accuracy ranged from 98.3 to 101.3% for EC.
This HPLC-FLD method was used to determine the presence of EC in twenty Chinese yellow rice wine samples collected from six types (Table 3). The vali- dated method was used to determine EC in twenty Chinese yellow rice wine samples from different types. Under the tested samples, the highest level of EC detected in Chinese yellow rice wine samples was
242.2 lg L)1. As shown in Table 3, all the samples can be successfully analysed for EC concentration, which implies the robustness of this HPLC-FLD method. The method presented herein can be suitable to measure EC level in Chinese yellow rice wine. Moreover, the sample preparation procedure of this method can be simple and fast.
The analytical method was also adopted to analyse the distribution of EC and its change during the winemaking and storage. Thus, the effect of the storage age on the change of EC in Chinese yellow wines was investigated in this work. As indicated in Fig. 2, the EC level of the samples from one brand (Tapai) having eight kinds of age showed the positive correlation (R2 = 0.959) with the storage time. It has been reported that EC level increases as the storage time lasts in grape wine products (Uthurry et al., 2004). EC formation resulting from the slow reaction between urea and ethanol during aging should logically be included with those produced by malolactic fermentation. The notably higher EC level of most of the cru and reserve wines compared to the young wines verified that older yellow wines are more likely to have generated significant levels of EC (Kodama et al., 1994; Stevens & Ough, 1993). The longer time over which reactions proceed, plus a variety of precursors, would be a combination to render high level of EC in grape wine product (Uthurry et al., 2004).
The correlation between urea and EC level was assessed using the tested samples (Fig. 3). It was found that EC level was correlated with diminution in the level of urea under the present analytical method (R2 = 0.892). Up to this phenomenon, it is also confirmed in the spirit and grape wine samples (Kodama et al., 1994; Schehl et al., 2007). However, the exact correlation for EC and urea in Chinese yellow rice wine is to be further verified with a great of wine samples.
Conclusions. 
In the present work, a specific and rapid HPLC-FLD method was applied for the determination of EC in Chinese yellow rice wine. The analytical method pro- posed for determining EC concentration showed good results for parameters usually examined in the validation procedure. The main relevant parameters were, linearity with a correlation coefficient >0.9990; limits of detection and quantification of 73.2 and 243.9 lg L)1, respec- tively; the precision<5%; and accuracy, in the range 98.3–101.3%. This method requires minimum sample treatments, thus enabling its use in routine analysis of EC. The verification results demonstrated that this method was suitable for EC survey in Chinese yellow rice wine. Moreover, a significant increase in EC level was detected in aging Chinese yellow rice wine. As EC in aged Chinese yellow rice wine comes mostly from the reaction of urea and ethanol, time may play an impor- tant role. The positive correlation between EC formation and urea level was observed at Chinese yellow rice wine samples using the developed method. Current study will provide more evidences for illustrating EC distribution and formation during Chinese yellow rice winemaking.
